4.4 (Optional) - "Create a placement policy in Azure VMware Solution copy"
---

# Introduction

In Azure VMware Solution, clusters in a private cloud are a managed resource. As a result, the CloudAdmin role can't make certain changes to the cluster from the vSphere Client, including the management of Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS) rules.

The placement policy feature is available in all Azure VMware Solution regions. Placement policies let you control the placement of virtual machines (VMs) on hosts within a cluster through the Azure portal. When you create a placement policy, it includes a DRS rule in the specified vSphere cluster. It also includes additional logic for interoperability with Azure VMware Solution operations.

A placement policy has at least five required components:

Name - Defines the name of the policy and is subject to the naming constraints of Azure Resources.

Type - Defines the type of control you want to apply to the resources contained in the policy.

Cluster - Defines the cluster for the policy. The scope of a placement policy is a vSphere cluster, so only resources from the same cluster may be part of the same placement policy.

State - Defines if the policy is enabled or disabled. In certain scenarios, a policy might be disabled automatically when a conflicting rule gets created. For more information, see Considerations below.

Virtual machine - Defines the VMs and hosts for the policy. Depending on the type of rule you create, your policy may require you to specify some number of VMs and hosts. For more information, see Placement policy types below.

Prerequisite
You must have Contributor level access to the private cloud to manage placement policies.

Placement policy types
VM-VM policies
VM-VM policies specify if selected VMs should run on the same host or must be kept on separate hosts. In addition to choosing a name and cluster for the policy, VM-VM policies require that you select at least two VMs to assign. The assignment of hosts isn't required or permitted for this policy type.

VM-VM Affinity policies instruct DRS to try to keeping the specified VMs together on the same host. It's useful for performance reasons, for example.

VM-VM Anti-Affinity policies instruct DRS to try keeping the specified VMs apart from each other on separate hosts. It's useful in availability scenarios where a problem with one host doesn't affect multiple VMs within the same policy.

VM-Host policies
VM-Host policies specify if selected VMs can run on selected hosts. To avoid interference with platform-managed operations such as host maintenance mode and host replacement, VM-Host policies in Azure VMware Solution are always preferential (also known as "should" rules). Accordingly, VM-Host policies may not be honored in certain scenarios. For more information, see Monitor the operation of a policy below.

Certain platform operations dynamically update the list of hosts defined in VM-Host policies. For example, when you delete a host that is a member of a placement policy, the host is removed if more than one host is part of that policy. Also, if a host is part of a policy and needs to be replaced as part of a platform-managed operation, the policy is updated dynamically with the new host.

In addition to choosing a name and cluster for the policy, a VM-Host policy requires that you select at least one VM and one host to assign to the policy.

VM-Host Affinity policies instruct DRS to try running the specified VMs on the hosts defined.

VM-Host Anti-Affinity policies instruct DRS to try running the specified VMs on hosts other than those defined.

<details>

## Create a placement policy
There is no defined limit to the number of policies that you create. However, the more placement constraints you create, the more challenging it is for vSphere DRS to effectively move virtual machines within the cluster and provide the resources needed by the workloads.

Make sure to review the requirements for the policy type.

In your Azure VMware Solution private cloud, under Manage, select Placement policies > + Create.

### Tip

You may also select the Cluster from the Placement Policy overview pane and then select Create.

Provide a descriptive name, select the policy type, and select the cluster where the policy is created. Then select Enabled.

### Warning

If you disable the policy, then the policy and the underlying DRS rule are created, but the policy actions are ignored until you enable the policy.

If you selected VM-Host affinity or VM-Host anti-affinity as the type, select + Add hosts and the hosts to include in the policy. You can select multiple hosts.

### Note

The select hosts pane shows how many VM-Host policies are associated with the host and the total number of VMs contained in those associated policies.

Select + Add virtual machine and the VMs to include in the policy. You can select multiple VMs.

### Note

The select hosts pane shows how many VM-Host policies are associated with the host and the total number of VMs contained in those associated policies.

Once you've finished adding the VMs you want, select Add virtual machines.

Select Next: Review and create to review your policy.

Select Create policy. If you want to make changes, select Back: Basics.

After the placement policy gets created, select Refresh to see it in the list.

Screenshot showing the placement policy as Enabled after it's created.

Edit a placement policy
You can change the state of a policy, add a new resource, or unassign an existing resource.

Change the policy state
You can change the state of a policy to Enabled or Disabled.

In your Azure VMware Solution private cloud, under Manage, select Placement policies.

For the policy you want to edit, select More (...) and then select Edit.

### Tip

You can disable a policy from the Placement policy overview by selecting Disable from the Settings drop-down. You can't enable a policy from the Settings drop-down.

If the policy is enabled but you want to disable it, select Disabled and then select Disabled on the confirmation message. Otherwise, if the policy is disabled and you want to enable it, select Enable.

Select Review + update.

Review the changes and select Update policy. If you want to make changes, select Back: Basics.

Update the resources in a policy